A useful model for how Insurtech
can influence
the entire value chain
of the insurance industry,
breaks it up into five pieces.
Product-oriented,
selling and marketing,
risk taking or underwriting,
administering,
servicing clients and policies,
and then claims and
claims management
or paying out on
insurance claims.
The product design component
is multifaceted.
First of all, it starts with
the customer experience
and understanding
customer's insurance needs
and risk management needs.
The customer
experience ultimately
leads to questions in
identification of market segments,
as well as questions
of customization.
Can an insurer or an element
of the insurance
ecosystem provide
a better experience to clients
by understanding the needs they
have for risk management
across their lives,
whether it has to
do with their cars,
their homes, their lives,
their financial future?
Then can we customize it?
Can the industry
design new products?
Can it adjust the product
offerings in real-time?
Can it disaggregate the product
mix both in time and in
the cross-section of the
insured to provide what
is most valuable to them,
and can they do it seamlessly,
can they do it quickly,
and can they do it dynamically?
Designing and delivering products
to the end customer they want.
Marketing distribution
and the management
of sales of course,
could be augmented by
extending the ability
to reach the client,
integrating different
client touch points,
providing real-time
interactions with clients,
not just pull but push.
Identification of
cross-selling opportunities
known as the wallet
share for clients,
and that could link
back to concepts of
financial planning as
we've heard elsewhere,
or it could be very
specific to insurance.
Detecting client happiness
levels and satisfaction,
providing increased
price transparency,
supporting customization
as well as
competition, and
appropriate pricing.
Underwriting, the ability
to capture information,
provide rapid feedback
to clients on
their insurability and
the pricing of insurance.
Understanding clients
beyond the data
they provide on an application.
Automating workflow so that
the task of underwriting
is made most efficient,
ultimately tying back
to client experience.
Being able to gather
data to offer
real-time discounts and
couponing the clients.
Getting behind the client eyes
and understanding their behavior,
ultimately to provide
a better underwriting experience
and risk-management.
Post underwriting and
premium generation,
policy administration
or the acquisition
and servicing of
a policy comes to bear.
Servicing after acquisition of
insurance policies really is
the area where insurers are
in touch with their clients.
Post-acquisition,
the servicing element
of clients is often
monetized in the spirit of
the best clients being
an insurance company's
best clients.
The ability to again segment
the market with respect
to their desires for
servicing characteristics
like self servicing
or servicing at
all hours of the day,
as well as things like
automated reminders to pay,
and sending out renewal notices
or updates with life events,
and again connecting
back to financial plans.
All are ripe areas
for Insurtech to improve
the client experience.
Finally, servicing and
paying out of claims.
The servicing and paying out
of claims once they've been filed
is in fact the point at which
many see insurance as
being most valuable.
In other words,
the point at which
they think of their insurance
companies historically is
when the writer writing
a premium checked or
they are requesting
or filing a claim.
The ability to lower
wait times and improve
the customer experience as
a result of technological
transformation,
holds a great promise
in the ecosystem
of the insurance industry
with respect to their insurance.
That could range from
notification of claims,
the ability to submit
digital evidence,
the electronic filing
of claim forms,
status monitoring and analytics,
identifying fraud and
fraudulent claims.
Ultimately, potentially lowering
the cost for all insured.